# GEOM2159_Major
Project files for Geospatial Programming - Major Project

Buffer Processing Tool on QGIS

This project aims to create a tool that can calculate the area of land (minus roads and rivers) that can be covered with certain volumes of waste products from a broiler farm.
This is a tool which, when run, will determine and visualise the area that can be covered by an amount of concentrated waste, accounting for roads and creeks (which need no fertilising).  This will demonstrate to clients the area that can be covered if they are smart about their waste and use it as valuable soil enriching nutrients.  The constructed buffer can show clearly the area that can be covered, and account for different land uses around the area.  This tool will not, however, account for slope variation.  This may be an extension for this tool in the future.
Currently, I do this task on ArcGIS Pro with the help of an Excel spreadsheet.  This is prone to errors with me copying the wrong number from the spreadsheet, or errors in my formulae, and so lacks the Quality Assurance and Quality Control (QA/QC) I desire in other processes of my work.  The whole thing must be done manually due to certain steps requiring values from other items created in the process, and so a straightforward task can take ages, and any adjustment means the whole process must be done over again.  This wastes my time, and the client’s money.
The intended user for this process is me!  Or any other GIS professional who needs to do this task.  However, the intention is to create a tool that is portable and self-explanatory enough that anyone with a basic knowledge of geography and planning can use the tool (provided adequate knowledge of QGIS).  This tool will greatly simplify the task, reduce the time to create a visualisation of this phenomenon, and allow for a more rigorous quality assurance through reliable, repeatable results.  The product will be compared to a manually created result to ensure correct results.
